docs/pages/api_documentation.rst, before:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

API Documentation
===================================================
This API documentation for the `python_px4_ros2_map_nav`_ ROS 2 package is automatically generated from
docstrings.

.. _python_px4_ros2_map_nav: https://gitlab.com/px4-ros2-map-nav/python_px4_ros2_map_nav


map_nav_node module
--------------------------------------------
.. automodule:: python_px4_ros2_map_nav.map_nav_node
   :autosummary:
   :members:
   :private-members:
   :undoc-members:
   :show-inheritance:

superglue module
--------------------------------------------
.. automodule:: python_px4_ros2_map_nav.superglue
   :autosummary:
   :members:
   :private-members:
   :undoc-members:
   :show-inheritance:

util module
---------------------------------------
.. automodule:: python_px4_ros2_map_nav.util
   :autosummary:
   :members:
   :private-members:
   :undoc-members:
   :show-inheritance:

ros_param_defaults module
---------------------------------------
.. automodule:: python_px4_ros2_map_nav.ros_param_defaults
   :autosummary:
   :members:
   :private-members:
   :undoc-members:
   :show-inheritance:

Commit message:

Remove private members from all but map_nav_node API docs. Update documentation.

docs/pages/api_documentation.rst, after:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

API Documentation
===================================================
This is an automatically generated API documentation for the `python_px4_ros2_map_nav`_ ROS 2 package. Private members
for the :py:mod:`python_px4_ros2_map_nav.map_nav_node` module are included since their docstrings contain useful
technical information.

.. _python_px4_ros2_map_nav: https://gitlab.com/px4-ros2-map-nav/python_px4_ros2_map_nav


map_nav_node module
--------------------------------------------
.. automodule:: python_px4_ros2_map_nav.map_nav_node
   :autosummary:
   :members:
   :private-members:
   :undoc-members:
   :show-inheritance:

superglue module
--------------------------------------------
.. automodule:: python_px4_ros2_map_nav.superglue
   :autosummary:
   :members:
   :undoc-members:
   :show-inheritance:

util module
---------------------------------------
.. automodule:: python_px4_ros2_map_nav.util
   :autosummary:
   :members:
   :undoc-members:
   :show-inheritance:

ros_param_defaults module
---------------------------------------
.. automodule:: python_px4_ros2_map_nav.ros_param_defaults
   :autosummary:
   :members:
   :undoc-members:
   :show-inheritance:
