docs/pages/setup.rst, before:

**************************************************
Setup
**************************************************
To use and develop with GISNav, you must setup your simulation environment, which includes setting up ROS 2, PX4 and
the PX4-ROS bridge, and Gazebo. The quickest way is to use the pre-made `Docker`_ script. However, here you will also
find instruction and links to guides to setup everything locally.


PX4 Autopilot and ROS 2 & Gazebo
===================================================

You will need to setup the PX4 Autopilot with `ROS 2 and Gazebo <https://docs.px4.io/master/en/simulation/ros_interface.html>`.


.. _Docker:

Option 1  *(recommended)*: Docker
---------------------------------------------------
A complete dockerized simulation environment is provided in the TODO repository. Follow the Read Me instructions to
get started with the dockerized environment. Clone and build the docker repo:

.. code-block:: bash
    :caption: Clone the dockerized simulation environment

    cd $HOME && \
        git clone https://gitlab.com/px4-ros2-map-nav/px4-ros2-map-nav-sim.git

You will then need to build the environment by passing it the ``MAPPROXY_TILE_URL`` and ``NVIDIA_DRIVER_MAJOR_VERSION``
arguments. See the `WMS Endpoint`_ section for instruction on how to get an URL for the ``MAPPROXY_TILE_URL`` argument
if you do not have one yet. The example command uses ``nvidia-smi`` to find the major version installed on your system.

.. code-block:: bash
    :caption: Build it

    cd px4-ros2-map-nav-sim && \
        docker-compose build \
            --build-arg MAPPROXY_TILE_URL="https://example.server.com/tiles/%(z)s/%(y)s/%(x)s" \
            --build-arg NVIDIA_DRIVER_MAJOR_VERSION=$(nvidia-smi | grep -oP 'Driver Version: \K[\d{3}]+') \
            .

Once you have your docker container you can run and terminate your
simulation environment by doing:

.. code-block:: bash
    :caption: Run Gazebo example simulation with typhoon_h480 build target and ksql_airport.world

    docker-compose up -d

.. note::
    You should see the Gazebo and QGroundControl windows pop up soon on your screen. If you do not see them, you may
    need configure your ``xhost``:

    .. code-block:: bash

        xhost TODO


Finally, once you are done with your simulation, you can terminate it from your Terminal window:

.. code-block:: bash
    :caption: Terminate example simulation

    docker-compose down


Option 2: Build It Yourself
---------------------------------------------------

.. _QGroundControl:

QGroundControl
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
`Download and install QGroundControl <https://docs.qgroundcontrol.com/master/en/getting_started/quick_start.html>`_ to
get your ground control software up and running. You will need it to control your drone in the Gazebo simulation.


PX4 Autopilot
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
You can setup your own PX4-Autopilot by following these instructions.

Open a new terminal window and type in the following command:
.. code-block:: bash

    make px4_sitl_rtps gazebo_typhoon_h480__ksql_airport


PX4-ROS 2 microRTPS bridge
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
You will need to setup the bridge with the following topic configuration:


gscam2
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. _`WMS endpoint`:

WMS Endpoint
===================================================
The :class:`.BaseNode` class relies on a WMS to get map rasters for the estimated location of the vehicle, which will
then be used as input for the pose estimation. The WMS client :class:`.WMSClient` uses OWSLib and runs in a dedicated
thread, although it can also be configured to run in a dedicated process.

The example configuration uses mapproxy, which is lightweight and can be configured to both cache tiles and proxy a tile
based endpoint, which are common since they are more efficient, into a WMS endpoint. WMS endpiont is needed since the
GetMap request allows specifying a specific bounding box instead of a premade tile.

If your solution is Internet-connected, you can use any WMS endpoint. Otherwise you may choose to run your own mapproxy,
GeoServer or similar server onboard.

You can configure the WMS client via the ROS parameter server, or provide a YAML file when spinning up your node:

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: Example YAML configuration of wms ROS parameters

    my_node:
      ros__parameters:
        wms:
          url: 'http://localhost:8080/wms'
          version: '1.1.1'
          layers: ['Imagery']
          srs: 'EPSG:4326'  # don't change this setting, internal logic may often implicitly assume EPSG:4326
          request_timeout: 10
          image_format: 'image/jpeg'

.. note::
    The ``wms.url``, ``wms.version`` and ``wms.timeout`` ROS parameters are read-only because currently there is no
    implementation in :class:`.BaseNode` for re-initializing the underlying :class:`.WMSClient` instance with new
    parameters.


Own GIS Server
----------------------------------------------------
The benefit of running your own GIS server is that you can embed it onboard the drone and not rely on an internet
connection. Accessing map tiles or rasters over the internet may be fine for simulation but most likely not for
real-world use.

If you want to run your own server or WMS proxy, you may want to consider e.g. these options:

    * `MapProxy <https://mapproxy.org/>`_ (used by the GISNav `Docker`_ example, proxy only but can cache tiles locally)
    * `GeoServer <https://geoserver.org/>`_ (full-fledged `OGC-compliant <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_Geospatial_Consortium>`_ GIS server)

If you do not want to use commercial high-resolution data, you can load your own server with data from public domain
sources such as:

    * `OSM-curated Aerial Imagery <https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Aerial_imagery>`_

        * Large list of sources with various licensing terms, see terms of use for each service individually

    * `Farm Service Agency Aerial Photography Imagery Products and Programs <https://data.nal.usda.gov/dataset/farm-service-agency-aerial-photography-imagery-products-and-programs>`_

        * US coverage only

.. note::
    Commercial web-based map services are often tile-based (as opposed to WMS) because it is more efficient to serve
    pre-computed tiles than to compute unique rasters for each individual requested bounding box. You will need a WMS
    proxy if you decide to go with a tile-based endpoint.


.. warning::
    Many commercial services explicitly prohibit the caching of map tiles in their licensing terms, especially if their
    business model is based on billing API requests. This is mainly to prevent disintermediation in case their tiles
    are redistributed to a large number of end users.

    While caching tiles onboard your own drone is likely not the kind of misuse targeted by such clauses, you should
    still make sure you understand the Terms of Use of the service you are using and that it fits your planned use case.


.. seealso::
    You may want to learn `GDAL <https://gdal.org/>`_ to process your downloaded geospatial products to a format that is
    understood by your chosen GIS server.

Commit message:

Make note regarding docker image building time and xhost more explicit.

docs/pages/setup.rst, after:

**************************************************
Setup
**************************************************
To use and develop with GISNav, you must setup your simulation environment, which includes setting up ROS 2, PX4 and
the PX4-ROS bridge, and Gazebo. The quickest way is to use the pre-made `Docker`_ script. However, here you will also
find instruction and links to guides to setup everything locally.


PX4 Autopilot and ROS 2 & Gazebo
===================================================

You will need to setup the PX4 Autopilot with `ROS 2 and Gazebo <https://docs.px4.io/master/en/simulation/ros_interface.html>`.


.. _Docker:

Option 1  *(recommended)*: Docker
---------------------------------------------------
A complete dockerized simulation environment is provided in the TODO repository. Follow the Read Me instructions to
get started with the dockerized environment. Clone and build the docker repo:

.. code-block:: bash
    :caption: Clone the dockerized simulation environment

    cd $HOME && \
        git clone https://gitlab.com/px4-ros2-map-nav/px4-ros2-map-nav-sim.git

You will then need to build the environment by passing it the ``MAPPROXY_TILE_URL`` and ``NVIDIA_DRIVER_MAJOR_VERSION``
arguments. See the `WMS Endpoint`_ section for instruction on how to get an URL for the ``MAPPROXY_TILE_URL`` argument
if you do not have one yet. The example command uses ``nvidia-smi`` to find the major version installed on your system.

.. code-block:: bash
    :caption: Build it

    cd px4-ros2-map-nav-sim && \
        docker-compose build \
            --build-arg MAPPROXY_TILE_URL="https://example.server.com/tiles/%(z)s/%(y)s/%(x)s" \
            --build-arg NVIDIA_DRIVER_MAJOR_VERSION=$(nvidia-smi | grep -oP 'Driver Version: \K[\d{3}]+') \
            .

Once you have your docker container you can run and terminate your
simulation environment by doing:

.. code-block:: bash
    :caption: Run Gazebo example simulation with typhoon_h480 build target and ksql_airport.world

    docker-compose up -d

.. note::
    It may take a few minutes to build your Docker image. You should see the Gazebo and QGroundControl windows pop up
    soon on your screen after your image has built and is run in a container. If you do not see them after a while, you
    may need to configure your ``xhost``:

    .. code-block:: bash

        xhost TODO


Finally, once you are done with your simulation, you can terminate it from your Terminal window:

.. code-block:: bash
    :caption: Terminate example simulation

    docker-compose down


Option 2: Build It Yourself
---------------------------------------------------

.. _QGroundControl:

QGroundControl
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
`Download and install QGroundControl <https://docs.qgroundcontrol.com/master/en/getting_started/quick_start.html>`_ to
get your ground control software up and running. You will need it to control your drone in the Gazebo simulation.


PX4 Autopilot
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
You can setup your own PX4-Autopilot by following these instructions.

Open a new terminal window and type in the following command:
.. code-block:: bash

    make px4_sitl_rtps gazebo_typhoon_h480__ksql_airport


PX4-ROS 2 microRTPS bridge
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
You will need to setup the bridge with the following topic configuration:


gscam2
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. _`WMS endpoint`:

WMS Endpoint
===================================================
The :class:`.BaseNode` class relies on a WMS to get map rasters for the estimated location of the vehicle, which will
then be used as input for the pose estimation. The WMS client :class:`.WMSClient` uses OWSLib and runs in a dedicated
thread, although it can also be configured to run in a dedicated process.

The example configuration uses mapproxy, which is lightweight and can be configured to both cache tiles and proxy a tile
based endpoint, which are common since they are more efficient, into a WMS endpoint. WMS endpiont is needed since the
GetMap request allows specifying a specific bounding box instead of a premade tile.

If your solution is Internet-connected, you can use any WMS endpoint. Otherwise you may choose to run your own mapproxy,
GeoServer or similar server onboard.

You can configure the WMS client via the ROS parameter server, or provide a YAML file when spinning up your node:

.. code-block:: yaml
    :caption: Example YAML configuration of wms ROS parameters

    my_node:
      ros__parameters:
        wms:
          url: 'http://localhost:8080/wms'
          version: '1.1.1'
          layers: ['Imagery']
          srs: 'EPSG:4326'  # don't change this setting, internal logic may often implicitly assume EPSG:4326
          request_timeout: 10
          image_format: 'image/jpeg'

.. note::
    The ``wms.url``, ``wms.version`` and ``wms.timeout`` ROS parameters are read-only because currently there is no
    implementation in :class:`.BaseNode` for re-initializing the underlying :class:`.WMSClient` instance with new
    parameters.


Own GIS Server
----------------------------------------------------
The benefit of running your own GIS server is that you can embed it onboard the drone and not rely on an internet
connection. Accessing map tiles or rasters over the internet may be fine for simulation but most likely not for
real-world use.

If you want to run your own server or WMS proxy, you may want to consider e.g. these options:

    * `MapProxy <https://mapproxy.org/>`_ (used by the GISNav `Docker`_ example, proxy only but can cache tiles locally)
    * `GeoServer <https://geoserver.org/>`_ (full-fledged `OGC-compliant <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_Geospatial_Consortium>`_ GIS server)

If you do not want to use commercial high-resolution data, you can load your own server with data from public domain
sources such as:

    * `OSM-curated Aerial Imagery <https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Aerial_imagery>`_

        * Large list of sources with various licensing terms, see terms of use for each service individually

    * `Farm Service Agency Aerial Photography Imagery Products and Programs <https://data.nal.usda.gov/dataset/farm-service-agency-aerial-photography-imagery-products-and-programs>`_

        * US coverage only

.. note::
    Commercial web-based map services are often tile-based (as opposed to WMS) because it is more efficient to serve
    pre-computed tiles than to compute unique rasters for each individual requested bounding box. You will need a WMS
    proxy if you decide to go with a tile-based endpoint.


.. warning::
    Many commercial services explicitly prohibit the caching of map tiles in their licensing terms, especially if their
    business model is based on billing API requests. This is mainly to prevent disintermediation in case their tiles
    are redistributed to a large number of end users.

    While caching tiles onboard your own drone is likely not the kind of misuse targeted by such clauses, you should
    still make sure you understand the Terms of Use of the service you are using and that it fits your planned use case.


.. seealso::
    You may want to learn `GDAL <https://gdal.org/>`_ to process your downloaded geospatial products to a format that is
    understood by your chosen GIS server.
