docs/vitepress/docs/admin-portal.md, before:

# Admin portal

::: warning Warning: Experimental feature
The admin portal is very much untested and is intended for exploring how to provide ways of managing configuration parameters and onboard maps without coding or GIS expertise.

:::

GISNav includes a captive or self-hosted Homepage admin portal with links to relevant resources. A FileGator file server for editing configuration files without need for programming knowledge or commandline work. A Glances instance is available to monitor the system.


## Serve admin portal

You can use the [CLI tool](/gisnav-cli) or [Docker Compose](/deploy-with-docker-compose) to serve the admin portal.

### GISNav CLI

The admin portal is automatically served when starting `gisnav` using the CLI:

```bash
gnc start gisnav
```

You can also only start the admin tools:

```bash
gnc start nginx
```

### Docker Compose

To launch the admin portal along with any required supporting services, use the following command:

```bash
cd ~/colcon_ws/src/gisnav/docker
docker compose -p gisnav up nginx
```

Once the services are running, you can open the admin portal in a web browser using the hostname of the server hosting the homepage on port `80`. Below are examples for accessing the homepage hosted on the `localhost` as well as on an external [Raspberry Pi](/raspberry-pi-pixhawk) with the default hostname `raspberrypi.local`:


## Visit admin portal

You can find the admin portal at port `80` on the host machine (e.g. `localhost`, or a [Raspberry Pi](/raspberry-pi-pixhawk)). Use the below commands to open the web page with your default web browser:

::: code-group

```bash [localhost]
xdg-open http://localhost
```

```bash [raspberrypi.local]
xdg-open http://raspberrypi.local
```

:::

Commit message:

First batch of documentation updates after networking redesign to support HIL deployments
Changes some Raspberry Pi references to Jetson Nano since the Jetson is used for testing HIL now.

Moves the mock GPS demo page from getting started section to the simulation section to improve categorization of topics

docs/vitepress/docs/admin-portal.md, after:

# Admin portal

GISNav includes a captive (self-hosted) admin portal that can be accessed via a web browser. Some of the functionality available via the portal includes but is not limited to:

- Editing configuration files and managing maps via FileGator fileserver
- Monitoring system status via Glances
- Viewing uploaded maps via OpenLayers
- Monitoring health of Docker Compose services
- Downloading more maps using [links to external imagery](/setup-gis-server#orthoimagery-and-dems)

## Serve admin portal

The admin portal is automatically served when starting `gisnav` using [GISNav CLI](/gisnav-cli):

```bash
gnc create --build gisnav
gnc start gisnav
```

You can also only start the admin tools by starting `nginx` which `gisnav` depends on:

```bash
gnc create --build nginx
gnc start nginx
```

## Access admin portal

You can access the admin portal at port `80` on the host machine such as `localhost`, or e.g. `jetsonnano.local` if using [a separate companion computer on a local network](/hil-pixhawk). Use the below example commands to open the admin portal with your default web browser.

::: info SSL/TLS not yet supported
SSL/TLS i.e. HTTPS over port `443` is not yet supported.
:::

::: tip Edit hostname
Edit the hostname to match your companion computer hostname if not running on `localhost`.

These examples assume your network stack supports mDNS i.e. can resolve the `.local` top-level domain. This is likely if you are running Ubuntu and connecting to your companion computer directly via Ethernet cable.
:::

::: code-group

```bash [localhost]
xdg-open http://localhost
```

```bash [jetsonnano.local]
xdg-open http://jetsonnano.local
```

```bash [raspberrypi.local]
# not verified to work - 4GB memory may be too little on RPi
xdg-open http://raspberrypi.local
```
:::
