docs/vitepress/docs/install-from-debian-package.md, before:

# Install from Debian package

> [!WARNING] Warning: Simulation use only
> Do not use this software for real flight missions. GISNav is untested and has only been demonstrated in a simulation environment.

This page describes how you can a install containerized version of GISNav for HIL simulation on your companion computer from a Debian package.

- For a SITL mock GPS demo, see [here](/README) instead. Eventually the [GISNav CLI](/gisnav-cli) that comes with the Debian package should be able to run the demo as well, but currently that is not the case.

    ::: info Todo
    Run demo from CLI, e.g. `gnc sim start` or `gnc sim sitl start`

    :::

- For development you may want to install a [non-containerized version of GISNav](/install-locally) instead.




## Prerequisites

<!--@include: ./shared/docker-compose-required.md-->

## Install

<!--@include: ./shared/install-debian.md-->

After installing the package, you may want to check out the [CLI intro page](/gisnav-cli).

## Enable on startup

Enable the `gisnav.service` that was installed with the Debian package to automatically start on system startup.

::: warning Warning: Resource constrained systems
Assuming you are installing this on a resource constrained companion computer, enabling the `gisnav.service` will significantly slow down your system on startup.

:::

```bash
sudo systemctl enable gisnav.service
sudo systemctl start gisnav.service
```

Commit message:

First batch of documentation updates after networking redesign to support HIL deployments
Changes some Raspberry Pi references to Jetson Nano since the Jetson is used for testing HIL now.

Moves the mock GPS demo page from getting started section to the simulation section to improve categorization of topics

docs/vitepress/docs/install-from-debian-package.md, after:

# Install from Debian package

> [!WARNING] Warning: Simulation use only
> Do not use this software for real flight missions. GISNav is untested and has only been demonstrated in a simulation environment.

This page describes how you can a install containerized version of GISNav for HIL simulation on your companion computer from a Debian package.

- For a SITL mock GPS demo, see [here](/README) instead. Eventually the [GISNav CLI](/gisnav-cli) that comes with the Debian package should be able to run the demo as well, but currently that is not the case.

    ::: info Todo
    Run demo from CLI, e.g. `gnc sim start` or `gnc sim sitl start`

    :::

- For development you may want to install a [non-containerized version of GISNav](/install-locally) instead.




## Prerequisites

<!--@include: ./shared/docker-compose-required.md-->

## Install

<!--@include: ./shared/install-debian.md-->

After installing the package, you may want to check out the [CLI intro page](/gisnav-cli).

## Enable on startup

Enable the `gisnav.service` that was installed with the Debian package to automatically start on system startup.

::: warning Warning: Resource constrained systems
Assuming you are installing this on a resource constrained companion computer, enabling the `gisnav.service` on startup will slow down your system.

:::

```bash
sudo systemctl enable gisnav.service
sudo systemctl start gisnav.service
```

## Quick start

After installing, try [simulating GPS failure](/sitl-local) in a local SITL simulation.
