# Test GISNav

This page describes how you run some of the test suites included with GISNav.  Tests can be run locally which is usefule for development, or in a container which is useful as part of a CI pipeline.

## Prerequisites

<!--@include: ./shared/run-in-container-prerequisites.md-->

## Static analysis

Static analysis runs the pre-commit configuration in the repository root directory on all files, not just the ones staged for commit:

::: code-group

```bash [Local]
cd ~/colcon_ws/src/gisnav
make test-static
```

```bash [Docker]
cd ~/colcon_ws/src/gisnav/docker
docker compose -p gisnav run gisnav make test-static
```

:::

## Launch tests

Launch tests using the [ROS launch_testing package](https://index.ros.org/p/launch_testing/) are provided for smoke testing launch files for common launch configurations in the `test.launch` package. They are quick tests that would typically reveal basic issues with the nodes, like a node not starting properly or crashing soon after startup.


::: code-group

```bash [Local]
cd ~/colcon_ws/src/gisnav
make test-launch
```

```bash [Docker]
cd ~/colcon_ws/src/gisnav/docker
docker compose -p gisnav run gisnav make test-launch
```

:::

You can also try running only specific launch tests with commands like below:

::: code-group

```bash [Local]
cd ~/colcon_ws/src/gisnav
launch_test src/gisnav/gisnav/test/launch/test_default_launch.py
```

```bash [Docker]
cd ~/colcon_ws/src/gisnav/docker
docker compose -p gisnav run gisnav launch_test src/gisnav/gisnav/test/launch/test_default_launch.py
```

:::
## Unit tests

::: info Todo
Implement a basic set of unit tests that is useful.

:::

## SITL tests

The SITL tests are powerful automated test suites that simulate GISNav in an end-to-end loop with the autopilot inside a simulated world with simulated but realistic sensor data.

### Additional prerequisites

The SITL tests require some additional supporting Docker Compose services to be built and created:

```bash
cd ~/colcon_ws/src/gisnav/docker
docker compose -p gisnav build px4
docker compose -p gisnav create px4
make expose-xhost
```

### Run SITL tests

SITL tests are under the `gisnav/test/sitl` folder. Use the below commands to run the SITL test:

::: code-group

```bash [Local]
cd ~/colcon_ws/src/gisnav/gisnav
make test-sitl
```

```bash [Docker]
cd ~/colcon_ws/src/gisnav/docker
docker compose -p gisnav run gisnav make test-sitl
```

:::

::: info SITL tests not included in CI
The SITL tests are not run in CI since they would realistically require a GPU-enabled runner, which is inconvenient.
:::

### Flight log analysis

The flight logs generated by the SITL tests can be analyzed e.g. with the help of the example code snippets in the Jupyter notebooks in the `test/ulog_analysis` folder. You must first start `jupyter-notebook`:

```bash
cd ~/colcon_ws/src/gisnav/gisnav/test/sitl/ulog_analysis
jupyter-notebook
```

The notebook documents the analysis and displays the results. Download the example ULog files from Google Drive [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1SmcOV11IJG4qL7Of77mpNICeiLP_9fH7?usp=sharing).

## Code coverage reports

To generate and inspect code coverage you can use `coverage.py`. See the [official instructions](https://coverage.readthedocs.io/en/6.4.1/source.html) on how to configure what source files to measure.

Use the below command to run and inspect a code coverage report for the launch tests for the default launch configuration:

```bash
cd ~/colcon_ws
python3 -m coverage run --branch --include *gisnav* src/gisnav/gisnav/test/launch/test_default_launch.py
python3 -m coverage report
```
